Add lazer article stub (#8790)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Client/Release_stream/Lazer/en.md

---
stub: true
tags:
  - client
  - game client
  - osu!lazer
  - osu! lazer
  - osu lazer
  - osu!(lazer)
---

# Lazer release stream

::: Infobox
![](/img/lazer.png "The osu!(lazer) client logo, a stylised version of the osu! cookie")

[Download](https://github.com/ppy/osu#running-osu) • [Issue tracker](https://github.com/ppy/osu/issues) • [Discussions](https://github.com/ppy/osu/discussions)

|  |  |
| :-- | :-- |
| First release | 2017-02-12 |
| Open source | Yes |
:::

*For common questions regarding updating to lazer, and the new client itself, see: [Help Centre/Upgrading to lazer](/wiki/Help_centre/Upgrading_to_lazer)*

"Lazer" is the code name for the next major update to osu!. While the other release streams are feature-locked, lazer will continue to receive updates and eventually become the new "stable" client, with other versions renamed accordingly.

## History

> The project started in mid-2015[^peppy-2017] as a new design for the stable client's interface made by [flyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3103765), osu!'s lead designer. This was first showcased in a teaser video the same year.<!-- TODO: can't find a link/archive for this -->

Reviewer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrWyqpNUwBo

---
stub: true
tags:
  - client
  - game client
  - osu!lazer
  - osu! lazer
  - osu lazer
  - osu!(lazer)
---

# Lazer release stream

::: Infobox

> ![](/img/lazer.png "The osu!(lazer) client logo, a stylised version of the osu! cookie")

Reviewer: This logo is kinda temporary FWIW. Doesn't need to be said here, but just for your own knowledge.

> [Download](https://github.com/ppy/osu#running-osu) • [Issue tracker](https://github.com/ppy/osu/issues) • [Discussions](https://github.com/ppy/osu/discussions)

Author: i wrote this before that happened <.<

:::

*For common questions regarding updating to lazer, and the new client itself, see: [Help Centre/Upgrading to lazer](/wiki/Help_centre/Upgrading_to_lazer)*

"Lazer" is the code name for the next major update to osu!. While the other release streams are feature-locked, lazer will continue to receive updates and eventually become the new "stable" client, with other versions renamed accordingly.

## History

The project started in mid-2015[^peppy-2017] as a new design for the stable client's interface codenamed "osu!next" made by [flyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3103765), osu!'s lead designer. This was first showcased in a [teaser video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrWyqpNUwBo) the same year.

Draft versions were uploaded on flyte's [design blog](https://osunext.tumblr.com/) starting from 2016.

Implementing the design and new planned features using stable's code base proved to be difficult or even nearly impossible due to technical debt. As such, work started on a complete rewrite of the client early 2016 and a first release was published on GitHub on 12 February 2017, containing a bare-minimum implementation of gameplay in the osu! game mode, and the new menu designs.

> A framework is concurrently written as a separate project, the osu!framework, acting as a space for game components and systems that could be useful in other games.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A framework is concurrently maintained as a separate project, the [osu!framework](https://github.com/ppy/osu-framework), to separate lower-level responsibilities at a code level. It is hoped that the framework could be useful in other games or applications.
```

Maybe also worth mentioning that it's already been used for some other projects? Out of scope? not sure.

Author: not sure. maybe not in the history section though
